= Coronavirus mortality linked to height

Researchers in Silicon Valley have discovered that taller people are more susceptible to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). The link explains a lot of the differences seen between groups in the current pandemic and may mean that taller people should take additional precautionary measures. 

According to one of the researchers involved in the project, speaking on condition of anonymity because the results have not yet been published in a peer-reviewed journal, “This would explain why children are much less likely to contract the disease,” the researcher said. Children under ten accounted for less than 1% of all confirmed cases in the Wuhan outbreak and teenagers were only 1.2%. By comparison, full grown adults in their thirties accounted for 17%. “Height playing a role would also help explain gender differences,” the researcher explained. More than 60% of the deaths in Wuhan were male and men are on average about five inches taller than women. Asked whether this might explain why the NBA was the first major sports league to suspend its season after 7’1” Rudy Gobert tested positive, the research described that evidence as interesting but only anecdotal. “Regardless”, the researcher added, “it’s clear that at a population level, size matters, and being short is advantageous”.

It’s not yet clear why stature would play a role in the disease. One theory is that it is just a matter of geometry. Shorter people’s faces are naturally further than average from a typical person’s face when standing the mandated six feet apart, just because of the additional vertical distance. In addition, as airborne droplets fall toward their faces, the droplets are moving at a steeper angle and are thus less likely to enter the mouth and nose and cause an infection. This effect is particularly pronounced for children in the school environment where they are seated and the primary speaker, the teacher, is not.

Another theory is that hand washing may be less effective for taller people because their hands tend to be closer to the spout where the water is moving slower. The slower moving water may be less likely to wash away the virus. 

Others have pointed out that children are less likely to touch highly contaminated surfaces like door handles and light switches. This is partly because adults typically open doors and turn on lights for very small children, but research has also shown that older children are much less likely than adults to close doors and turn lights off. Whether this same reasoning might also explain why women are less susceptible than men remains controversial.

When asked what additional precautions tall people should take in light of the discovery, the researcher suggested that they should consider washing their hands longer and increasing their social distancing. “Based on the size of the effect I’ve seen in the data, I’m telling the taller members of my family that for every per inch in height in excess of five foot seven inches they should wash their hands for an additional one second and increase their social distancing by two inches . The six foot tall researcher says he maintains a distance of seven foot three inches and washes his hands for twenty-five seconds. “I add ‘and many more…’ to the end of the birthday song both times I sing it”, the researcher said. When asked whether stooping over was recommended, the researcher felt it was a reasonable option while hand washing, but said there was not yet any evidence to indicate that walking around bent over would have any effect. “If it does have an effect, I would expect it to be mostly caused by the people around you increasing their social distancing.”

When asked whether any drugs might be developed to take advantage of the link, the researcher said it was unlikely, but emphasized that the data is still very preliminary and patients who are taking human growth hormone must consult their physician before reducing their dosage. The researcher also pointed out that it was much too soon for shorter people to consider reducing their social distance or their hand washing time. “We all need to be careful not to jump to conclusions. We both know what’s been going on in terms of all of the psuedoscience on the internet. I just want to tell you how I’m feeling about our research. It seems solid but until it has been confirmed, you know the rules and so do I. Everyone should maintain a social distance of at least six feet and regularly wash their hands for at least twenty seconds.”

UPDATE April 1, 2020 3:25pm PST: A [video describing the research](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ) is now available.
